Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are typically characterized by difficulties in communicating and forming relationships with other people.
Characteristics of Children with Autism Spectrum Disorders
ASDs are characterized by students “being impaired in the ability to communicate, understand language, play, develop social skills, and relate to others” (Raymond, 2008, p. 197). In 1943, Kanner
first created a set of seven features of individuals with autism. These seven features were: (a) inability to relate themselves to people and situations, (b) poor language development, (c) echolalia, (d)
excellent rote memory, (e) perseveration and repetitive behavior, (f) anxiously obsessive with sameness, (g) good cognitive potentialities and generally normal appearance.


Autism spectrum disorders are characterised by difficulties in developing social, cognitive or physical skills from childhood, although presentation of autism is very heterogeneous (Frye et al, 2018). Repetitive behaviours, difficulty engaging in activities and in communication are common, meaning children with autism require a lot of support growing up.
Evidence shows that children with autism significantly benefit from early interventions for language and communication development, as well as reinforcing that there is no one way to achieve good outcomes (Jiménez-Muñoz et al, 2021).




Cognitive development

Children with autistic spectrum disorders have unique patterns of development, both as a group and as individuals. Many children with ASDs have relative strengths that can be used to buttress their learning in areas that they find difficult.
For example, a child with strong visual-spatial skills may learn to read words to cue social behavior. A child with strong nonverbal problem-solving skills amy be motivated easily by tasks that have a clear endpoint or that require thinking about
how to move from one point to another.




https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5514024/

Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are typically characterized by difficulties in communicating and forming relationships with other people.
This is often misunderstood, slowly developing and accumulating frustration that can eventually be released
in an unhealthy manner, fact that leads to rigidity, anxiety and even depression when it comes to
social interactions. ASDs have a negative effect on children's developing education, their goals
and strategies to accomplish them. There is a set of seven features of individuals with autism and these are: (a) inability to relate themselves to people and situations, (b) poor language development, (c) echolalia, (d)
excellent rote memory, (e) perseveration and repetitive behavior, (f) anxiously obsessive with sameness, (g) good cognitive potentialities and generally normal appearance.
Individuals and groups of children with autism spectrum disorders have distinct developmental patterns. Many children with ASDs have relative strengths that they might use to supplement their learning in areas where they struggle.
A child with great visual-spatial abilities, for example, might learn to interpret words to cue social conduct. Tasks having a clear finish or that demand thought about how to get from one point to another may encourage a child with good nonverbal problem-solving skills.